---
layout: page
title: Neural Networks for Cybersecurity
description: A supervised learning approach to cybersecurity
img: /assets/img/icnn.png
importance: 2
category: machine learning
---

**Tools/Concepts used:** Input Convex Neural Networks \
**Programming language and tools:** Python, Keras \
**Publication:** **Misra, Shruti**, Shana Moothedath, Hossein Hosseini, Joey Allen, Linda Bushnell, Wenke Lee, and Radha Poovendran. "Learning equilibria in stochastic information flow tracking games with partial knowledge." In 2019 IEEE 58th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC), pp. 4053-4060. IEEE, 2019. \
**Project Type:** Research

<hr>

## The Setting

Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs) have emerged as a security threat to organizations, including national defense, manufacturing, and the financial industry. APTs are methodically designed to bypass conventional security mechanisms by being stealthy and are customized to the context of attack. Hence, detection of APTs is typically hard. Despite the fact that APTs are stealthy, interaction of APTs with the system during the attack introduce information flows that are recorded in the system log. So, analyzing the suspicious information flows is a feasible technique to detect the presence of adversaries. 

<hr>

## The Problem

Dynamic Information Flow Tracking (DIFT) is a mechanism that is widely used to detect APTs. Implementation and operation of DIFT, however, introduces memory and performance overhead on the system as it involves tracking and analyzing a large number of benign information flows. Thus, an optimal selection of processes in the system to performsecurity analysis is critical for effective and resource efficient detection. An optimal selection of processes, however, also
depends on the interaction of the adversary with the system. We modeled a cost effective DIFT-based detection mechanism against APTs. The effectiveness of DIFT at each stage of the attack depends on the actions of the APT. Further, the probability of APT evading detection depends on the processes at which DIFT perform security analysis. Therefore, there exists a fundamental trade-off between detection efficiency and resource efficiency. 

<hr>

## Towards a solution

We modeled the interactions between the adversary and the denfender as a dynamic game that models that above efficiency trade-off. The game evolves on the
graph of the system constructed from the system log, where at every stage of the game the APT chooses the next operation and DIFT decides whether to conduct a security analysis on the flow or not. The APT vs. DIFT game is nonzero-sum due to different parameter values and the additional resource cost on DIFT. Moreover, the game has an asymmetric information structure as DIFT is incapable of distinguishing a malicious flow or benign flow. The position of the information flow in the graph along with actions chosen by APT and DIFT yield a probability distribution on the allowed state transitions in the game. However, the transition probabilities are determined by the rate of false negatives generated by the system at different processes and in practical scenarios are unknown. As a step towards developing a solution when the transition probabilities are unknown, we **proposed and implemented** a supervised learning-based approach to learn an approximate Nash equilibrium (NE) of the game which implicitly learns the unknown transition probabilities.

<hr>



